TODO.md, before:



## 2024-08-23

### TODAY
- o : coordinate system - z is up - camera facing +x
- o : add 3d cube
- implement euler angles 
- specify size and location of ui element in pixel units


### Since last time
- Added python notebooks for transformation visualizations



<br> <br>

## 2024-08-21

### Things to do Before/During Next Stream:
- setup intuitive global/inertial coordinates system/ref. frame (right handed, z=up)
- implement minimal euler angles on objects to enable rotations
- camera + some pan/rotate
- simple vertex loader from file
- UI
	- specify size and location of element in pixel-units
	- render text
- collision detection


### TODAY
- o shader-program class/objects - one button UI
- o dynamic simulation, not precalculated closed form


### Since last episode
- Moved from WSL to Ubuntu
	- That made the depth test work
	- window decoratations
- grayscale coloring based on clip-space z-value


<br> <br>

## 2024-08-16

NEXT SESSION:
- UI shader
- dynamic simulation, not analytic form visualization
- depth test
- projection and view matrix


TODAY:
- o Refactor Simulation object manipulation
- o Rotate object about z-axis
- UI - start simulation
	- create start button
		- UI shader
	- o detect start button click and start sim
- o simulate throw of triangle in 3D
	- bounce on ground
	- INPUT:
		- xv0, vv0, 




## 2024-08-14

TODAY:
- x simulate throw of triangle in 3D
- x UI - start simulation
- o : improve timing cycle
- o : simple perspective
- o : Matrix math


NEXT TIME:
- improve matrix library
	- seperate file
	- consistent objects
- perspective/camera matrices!
	- d

Commit message:

Euler angle transform.. First attempt.

TODO.md, after:



## 2024-08-23

### Comming up
- test and upgrade euler angle rotation
- camera + some pan/rotate
- simple vertex loader from file
- UI
	- specify size and location of element in pixel-units
	- render text
- collision detection


### TODAY
- o : coordinate system - z is up - camera facing +x
- o : add 3d cube
- o : implement euler angles 
- specify size and location of ui element in pixel units


### Since last time
- Added python notebooks for transformation visualizations



<br> <br>

## 2024-08-21

### Things to do Before/During Next Stream:
- setup intuitive global/inertial coordinates system/ref. frame (right handed, z=up)
- implement minimal euler angles on objects to enable rotations
- camera + some pan/rotate
- simple vertex loader from file
- UI
	- specify size and location of element in pixel-units
	- render text
- collision detection


### TODAY
- o shader-program class/objects - one button UI
- o dynamic simulation, not precalculated closed form


### Since last episode
- Moved from WSL to Ubuntu
	- That made the depth test work
	- window decoratations
- grayscale coloring based on clip-space z-value


<br> <br>

## 2024-08-16

NEXT SESSION:
- UI shader
- dynamic simulation, not analytic form visualization
- depth test
- projection and view matrix


TODAY:
- o Refactor Simulation object manipulation
- o Rotate object about z-axis
- UI - start simulation
	- create start button
		- UI shader
	- o detect start button click and start sim
- o simulate throw of triangle in 3D
	- bounce on ground
	- INPUT:
		- xv0, vv0, 




## 2024-08-14

TODAY:
- x simulate throw of triangle in 3D
- x UI - start simulation
- o : improve timing cycle
- o : simple perspective
- o : Matrix math


NEXT TIME:
- improve matrix library
	- seperate file
	- consistent objects
- perspective/camera matrices!
	- d
